# Single-Cell-Transcriptomics-Analysis-using-Seurat
This script is useful for analysing single-cell RNAseq Seurat data on the gene expression level, and it is used to analyse human lung bronchial tissue data for the impact of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) and Influenza A infection. The R workflow of multimodal reference mapping is adapted from Hao et al., 2021, using single-cell RNA seq data of Madissoon et al., 2022 obtained from the Human Cell Atlas. The R workflow of Gene Ontology (GO), Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), and KEGG Pathway Enrichment Analysis is adapted from Yu, 2023.

# References:
1. Hao, Y., Hao, S., Andersen-Nissen, E., Mauck, W. M., Zheng, S., Butler, A., Lee, M. J., Wilk, A. J., Darby, C., Zager, M., Hoffman, P., Stoeckius, M., Papalexi, E., Mimitou, E. P., Jain, J., Srivastava, A., Stuart, T., Fleming, L. M., Yeung, B., & Rogers, A. J. (2021). Integrated analysis of multimodal single-cell data. Cell, 184(13), 3573-3587.e29. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.cell.2021.04.048
2. HCA Data Portal. (2025). Humancellatlas.org. https://data.humancellatlas.org/
3. Madissoon, E., Oliver, A. J., Kleshchevnikov, V., Wilbrey-Clark, A., Polanski, K., Richoz, N., Ribeiro Orsi, A., Mamanova, L., Bolt, L., Elmentaite, R., Pett, J. P., Huang, N., Xu, C., He, P., Dabrowska, M., Pritchard, S., Tuck, L., Prigmore, E., Perera, S., & Knights, A. (2022). A spatially resolved atlas of the human lung characterizes a gland-associated immune niche. Nature Genetics, 55(1), 66–77. https://doi.org/10.1038/s41588-022-01243-4
4. Yu, G. (2023). Chapter 7 KEGG enrichment analysis | Biomedical Knowledge Mining using GOSemSim and clusterProfiler. Yulab-Smu.top. https://yulab-smu.top/biomedical-knowledge-mining-book/clusterprofiler-kegg.html
